# Toolforge builds API

This is an API to build container images from source code to use in Toolforge.

For more documentation about the Toolforge Build Service, visit
[here](https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Portal:Toolforge/Admin/Build_Service).

## Development

Before you begin, you need to have golang and oapi-codegen installed. To install
and setup golang, follow the link https://go.dev/doc/install

After you've installed golang, use the command below to install oapi-codegen:

```bash
> make install-oapi-codegen
```

### Modifying the OpenAPI Definition

The core of the app is generated by `oapi-codegen` from the
`openapi/openapi.yaml` file. If you modify the OpenAPI YAML definition, you need
to regenerate the code:

```bash
> make gen-api
```

Then, you can manually modify the code under `cmd/main.go` to match the new
changes if necessary.

## Building the Docker Image

To build the Docker image, run:

```bash
> make image
```

This will create a `toolsbeta-harbor.wmcloud.org/toolforge/builds-api:dev` image
locally, which you can then re-tag and push if you want.

## Updating the Code After Changing the OpenAPI YAML File

After modifying the `openapi/openapi.yaml` file, regenerate the API code:

```bash
> make gen-api
```

You might have to tweak `cmd/main.go` to add any new configuration, or
`internal/api.go` to add or remove old handlers or change any if needed.

## Testing Locally

You can run tests with `make test`. Check out `make help` for other useful make
targets.

## Development tricks

### Manually building into lima-kilo

If you don't want to rely on gitlab CI building the image for you or want to
tweak closely any step of the build process, you can manually build this
component from within lima-kilo from the source code.

- Make sure you mounted your toolforge repos when creating your
  [lima-kilo](https://gitlab.wikimedia.org/repos/cloud/toolforge/lima-kilo/) vm
  (see
  [TOOLFORGE_REPOS_DIR](https://gitlab.wikimedia.org/repos/cloud/toolforge/lima-kilo#mounting-the-toolforge-repos-within-the-lima-vm))
- Use the builtin script to build and deploy (check the script for details)

```shell
lima-kilo:~$ toolforge_deploy $COMPONENT local
```

## Deploying an MR into lima-kilo

Useful if you want to test someone's MR or if you don't care if your code is
built by gitlab, recommended for most use cases.

1. Start a local Toolforge cluster using
   [lima-kilo](https://gitlab.wikimedia.org/repos/cloud/toolforge/lima-kilo/).
1. Commit your changes and create a branch + MR in gitlab for them
1. Run `toolforge_deploy $COMPONENT` to deploy the changes in lima-kilo

### Running Outside Kubernetes

You will still need a Kubernetes cluster as it will create the builds there, but
you can run the server outside of it using your `$KUBECONFIG` Kubernetes
configuration:

```bash
> OUT_OF_K8S_RUN=true go run cmd/main.go
```

## Deploying to Toolforge

This project uses the
[standard workflow](https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Portal:Toolforge/Admin#Deploying_a_component)
